---
layout: post
title: Project 1
---
Link to github pages repo:
https://github.com/hyeonhpark/ST558-Project1

For this project, we were tasked with creating a vignette. Vignettes are explanations of some concept, package, etc. with text, code, and output interweaved. My vignette was for reading and summarizing data from the National Hockey League’s (NHL) API. We created functions to access the data for different endpoints from the NHL records API. These endpoints included franchise data, total stats data for every franchise, season records (such as fewest goals for and against and their respective season IDs) for specific franchises, and goalie records and skater records with player statistics. With the data read-in from the endpoints, I performed an exploratory data analysis. I looked at Home vs. Road (Away) games, Old vs. New teams, Defense vs. Offense strategies, and players for the Carolina Hurricanes.   

One thing that I struggled with the most while working on this project was coming up with different ways to analyze the data pulled from the APIs. I've only ever watched a hockey game ONCE in my life, and I felt like I lacked the background information to properly analyze the data. It required me to do a bit of research on what the different game statistics represented before I could start the analysis. Now that I'm reflecting on it, I think it would've been helpful to watch another game before beginning the analysis.   

The most difficult part in terms of logic and programming was accessing the Stats API. Another programming trouble I had was practicing Good Programming Practices. Because this project was completed over a course of few days, I found myself struggling with using consistent naming schemes and caring for other aesthetic aspects of programming.   

While working on the project, I made use of github repo to keep track of my progress. To tell the truth, I am yet to understand the usefulness of the version control provided by github repo. I am sill in the habit of saving my drafts as separate files, and I can see why version control on github repo can effectively replace my technique, but I think it'll take more practice before I can truly appreciate it. In the future, I will be sure to take more advantage of the github repo properties, and I'm sure it will come in more handy when I am working on collaborative projects with other people.   

The biggest take-away for me is that it's never too early to start on a project. There were so many times when I found myself stuck, spending hours at times trying to figure out the one thing needed to move on to the next step. During some of these moments, it was better for me to stop and step away from the project for a good amount of time, something I couldn't do if I did not start early. I'll be starting on my next project as soon as it becomes available.  
