---
layout: post
title: Project 2
---
[Link to github pages site](https://hyeonhpark.github.io/ST558-Project2)  
[Link to github repo](https://github.com/hyeonhpark/ST558-Project2/tree/main)  

For project 2, we were tasked with creating tree models to make predictions about the count of total bike rentals from a bike-sharing system data. The project also involved automating Markdown reports such that reports are automatically generated for each day of week.  

I personally had more fun with this project than I had with project 1, mainly because the data used for project 2 was more straight forward than the data used for project 1. All major struggles I had with project 1 were related to the data itself: not knowing what the different terms referred to, not knowing how to approach the analysis, and etc. For project 2, the data was easy to understand. We had a clear response variable, and the predictor variables were simple enough that I was able to include, exclude, transform the variables as I saw them fit. Generally, I had a pretty smooth progress with project 2. The struggles I had in reading and analyzing the data and automating the process for each day of the week were minimal. The biggest of the minimal struggles I had was setting up different code-chunk names so that I automatically rendering the different reports didn't cause any issue. The real struggle for me came when setting up the github pages. 

Even though I didn't have much trouble with the analysis part of the project, there are certain aspects of the analysis that I would do differently if given another chance. One of the cons of fitting a boosted tree model is that outliers can have a large impact. For this analysis, I simply noted that there were outliers in some of the quantitative variables but did not attempt to remove them. It would be interesting to see how the removal of outliers changes the outcome of the models. Another aspect of the analysis I would do differently is setting up the tuning grid in the boosted tree model. For this analysis, I chose to stick with the defaul grid, but 





Once you’ve completed the above tasks you should write a brief blog post outlining your project and linking
to the username.github.io/repo-name site. You should then also reflect on the process you went through for
this project. Discuss things like:
• what would you do differently?
• what was the most difficult part for you?
• what are your big take-aways from this project?
• In your blog post, provide a link to your github pages repo
